NVIDIA reporting a record earnings and revenue last night, reporting an 85% increase in revenue,
a 92% increase in data center revenue. NVIDIA founder and CEO Jensen Huang told me in part
two of my interview, the data center rollout is accelerating and AI is also assisting in America's
national security. You find yourself not only the face of incredible growth and new technology
in the world, but also in the middle of the potential national security concerns between
the U.S.-China relationship.
So what do you want to say about that?
Because critics would say that selling advance chips to China helps China close the gap and
perhaps beat the U.S. in AI, which of course the president has said many times wants
to own it and win it.
And yet the other angle is the fact that if we block all sales, then China does
it anyway.
accelerating the growth coming out of companies like Huawei.
I think you've summarized it really well. The president would like us to win in every aspect
of AI. Remember, Nvidia is AI. And the reason we're part of the AI industry, AI is a five-layer
cake. It includes energy and chips, infrastructure, models, and then the applications that run on top.
The United States has to be absolutely certain and determined to lead the world in every
aspect, every layer of that five-layer cake—from energy, of course, from chips, of course.
And so all of these five layers are part of the new AI industry.
The president has been very clear he would like NVIDIA to, on the one hand, make sure
that American technology and American companies have the benefit of the latest of NVIDIA,
and the most of NVIDIA, and that's surely the case.
He's been very clear that he would like American companies to win around the world.
Winning around the world allows us to, one, export, generate revenues for the country, bring
back tax dollars for the country, create jobs in America.
It allows us also to diffuse and spread the American technology stack around the world
so that the rest of the world can be built on top of American technology and standards.
And so he's been very clear about that.
With respect to national security, China obviously has all the chips they need.
That's the reason why they don't need ours.
And Huawei has done a very good job.
They're obviously one of the largest companies in the world.
They had a record year.
They're flourishing in our absence.
And they're now exporting their technology out to the rest of the world, competing
with American companies around the world.
So I think that their ability to secure technology
for their national security reasons,
I think they have more than ample for their own needs.
Well, Jensen, this is all happening
at a time that the US military is increasingly
in need of AI chips as well.
And I mean, here we are in the middle of a war.
And I know that many of the rescues and the Operation
Epic Fury is relying on AI-enabled surveillance, satellite imagery, drones, signal processing,
high-performance computing systems where you're number one.
So tell me a little about that.
Without giving us any secrets, obviously, Jensen, about this great nation, can you talk to us
a little about, for example, when we were locating that missing officer in the mountainous
terrain of Iran, how envidia chips were actually critical in that regard in terms of surveillance
and finding our man?
Well we do a lot of work in imaging and most of the world's radar systems and imaging
systems has envidia chips in it and we're just incredibly honored to be able to support
our nation. Recently, you might have seen an announcement where the Department of War has
access to NVIDIA's technology so that they – and our technology is completely open
source so that it could be modified and enhanced for the applications of our military. And
we have great partnerships across the ecosystem of contractors and technology companies that
service the national securities organizations around in our country and so it's a great
honor for us to be able to do that.
And so technology matters in the future of national security and we're delighted to
be part of that.
Well, that's right, Jensen.
And I know that people view NVIDIA no longer as just an innovative technology company,
but as a critical national security infrastructure base for the U.S. government.
Is that a fair statement?
Well, we're a very large technology company,
and we're an American technology company.
We want America's technology industry
to be a national treasure of the United States.
We participate in every aspect of industry,
including building the AI industry itself.
One of the things that's really incredible
is that because of the buildout of AI,
the largest infrastructure build out in history.
We're creating so many jobs inside the United States.
Manufacturing chip plants, packaging plants,
computer plants, and of course, these AI data centers.
The number of jobs that we're creating
in the manufacturing sector is largest in recent history.
And so over the next several years,
we're gonna see trillions of dollars investment
coming back into the United States
all driven because of the buildout of AI infrastructure.
And so I'm really delighted to see this happening.
And it's going to be, of course, creating jobs,
enhancing our manufacturing sector,
reducing our dependence on other countries
and manufacturing is a core part of our national security.
And we play a very central role in doing that.
Yeah, but at the same time,
you're becoming more successful and growing
and making more money and generating more revenue.
you've got wannabes on your heels. How serious are the competitive threats right now when
you look at AMD or Google or Amazon, Trinium or Cerebrus and that very successful IPO the
other day? How significant do you view all of these competitors lurking?
We always take our competitors seriously. We're in the largest industry in the world
And so I have more than more than enough competition for anybody to enjoy.
And so, so, but the important thing is this, Maria, over the last year, we actually gain share.
We gain share in AI, in the hyperscalers, in the model builders.
And we created a whole new segment of data centers that is unique, requires the unique
capability that NVIDIA has, and we're really the only company that's frontiering and bringing
out physical AI for manufacturing and industrial applications.
And so we're gaining share in this area as the market is actually expanding, so it's
quite an incredible thing.
But we'll continue to be, you know, always stay alert to competition, and, you know,
they're going to have to work very hard to catch us, we're quite formidable ourselves,
And we worked pretty hard for the customers and where, you know, the Nvidia employees
are incredibly smart.
Oh, I know that.
You know, the other day we were talking about the company and the stock at five and a half
trillion dollars in market value.
Jensen, how does that make you feel?
I mean, these numbers are mind-boggling.
You are the most valued company in the world.
And one of my guests the other day said, well, he started doing the numbers in terms
of growth versus earnings and the projected revenue that he was expecting and he said,
I'm looking at six and a half trillion pretty soon. Is that what you're looking at, Jensen as well?
Well, first of all, it's a privilege to be at NVIDIA. Here we are creating and building one of the
most consequential technologies of all time and inventing a whole new industry in the process.
us, all of the companies that I work with and all the partners that we have and, you know,
everything from, you know, from Wendell at Corning to all of my friends in semiconductors
and memory companies and packaging companies and so all of the ecosystem that we support
in hardware and software upstream in our supply chain downstream through our data
centers and so there's so many partners that we work with is really a privilege for us to
be at the center of it, creating this whole new industry.
Ultimately, Maria, this is the largest manufacturing industry in the world.
That I think is certain now.
The production of intelligence will be much, much larger than the production of energy,
and production of energy is a very large industry.
So I think it's a foregone conclusion at this point that the electricity industry, the internet
industry that AI is built upon will be much larger than both of those industries previously.
And so we're going to create a lot of manufacturing jobs and we're going to create a whole lot
of different industries and companies on top of AI that the world's never even seen
yet.
And it's just an incredible privilege to be part of that.
Well, Jensen, you made a great point just now, mentioned in Corning, and can you talk to
us a word, give us a word on strategy, because you've made a number of partnership announcements
and you've made a number of acquisitions as well.
I mean, talking about all of this growth, you don't even, you know, look at the fact
that you made the acquisition of Grok at the end of last year.
I wonder what that was about.
You know, what is the strategy there?
Is it offense and defense?
and then you look at things like Corning and Lumentum
and you've been so ahead of the game
on smaller acquisitions as well.
What's the strategy long-term?
The strategy is to help build out this five-layer cake.
And this five-layer cake represents
a brand new industry called AI.
It includes energy all the way to applications on top.
And we look across this ecosystem
and we ask ourselves,
Where are their bottlenecks?
Where are their new companies that would emerge?
And how can we help companies across the world,
across this entire five-layer cake,
and across our ecosystem?
How can we help them scale up even faster?
Oftentimes, in the case of Wendell,
he said that Corning is gonna build 10 times
as much fiber optics technology,
fiber optics capability in the United States than previously because of the partnership
that we have.
And so that gives you an example of a situation where a deep partnership with a great company
like Corning is both great opportunity for NVIDIA, great support for Corning, and it's
actually necessary because we're going to scale up something by a factor of 10.
And so scaling up something in order of magnitude, especially in manufacturing, is not easy
to do.
doing this across our ecosystem.
And so we have partnerships, we invest in small companies, we invest in large companies,
we establish partnerships so that we can create this AI industry together.
This will be the largest industry the world's ever seen.
And we're at the beginning of that, and it's just incredibly exciting to be able
to, and a great privilege to have all these partners to help us scale up this incredible
industry.
So when you look at something like open AI, it's not really selling semiconductor chips.
It's more about becoming the infrastructure backbone in this AI revolution.
Yeah, open AI is one of the most consequential companies in history.
And it's incredibly fun to work with them.
We have great partnership.
They are the AI model layer.
We are the computing layer.
the two of us it's as you mentioned the AI backbone and it's one of the it's you
just mentioned two of the five layers of AI and so this is a very essential layer
and our partnership with them with them is incredible. No no no company has
ever grown as fast as open AI and of course recently Anthropic. No company
has ever grown this fast and it is very likely that both companies are going
to be growing spectacularly in the coming years.
Jensen, are customers asking you that they
want more computing power?
Do they want more lower energy usage?
Are they looking for cheaper inference?
What specifically do you hear most from customers
that they want now in this?
All three.
However, what they want more than anything
is they want their NVIDIA right now.
And so they just need to have NVIDIA compute right now.
And of course, they need it for several reasons.
One, our performance is spectacular.
It's the best performance in the world.
Well, before I go there, the first thing
is that they could actually build an entire AI factory
with NVIDIA's technology.
The ability to build these data centers, these factories,
is really spectacular.
And when you see them, the amount of technology inside,
For example, one gigawatt is like $50, $60 billion.
It's an enormous amount of technology.
And so you have to be a company with significant completeness
of technology and also significant scale
to even be able to serve an opportunity like that.
It's the most performant.
We deliver the lowest token cost.
The manufacturing output is the lowest in the world.
And our throughput, because our energy efficiency
the best, and there's only one gigawatt of energy in that data center, our energy efficiency
translates directly to the throughput, the manufacturing throughput of that factory.
And so we are the world's best at all of that, including total cost of ownership and
lifetime of the asset and rentability of our computing, because we have so many different
customers.
You know, all of that, we are the world's best.
Jensen, as we wrap up here, just give me a word on jobs, because I've seen what
you've said in terms of all of these worries about jobs, I mean you saw the public anger
recently when Eric Schmidt gave his graduation speech and the students were booing and you've
got people like Bernie Sanders saying we can't build any more data centers because of the
pressure on electricity.
But you've said, look, sure jobs will go away, but new jobs will be created.
What are those new jobs, Jensen?
And are we going to all have our own assistant robot in the next couple of years?
Is that how this is going?
Everyone will have an AI assistant.
There's no question about that.
Just as you all have your own phones
and we have our own laptops in the future,
well, I'll have our own AI assistants.
And that's a foregone conclusion.
With respect to jobs, AI creates jobs.
I want to be very clear.
AI creates jobs.
AI is obviously creating jobs in one
of the most important sectors of the United States.
Maria, you and I both would agree
that the United States needs to build out
and bring back its manufacturing capacity.
We need to have manufacturing jobs.
We want America to have a large number of skilled craft
labors.
We want to have construction workers and carpenters
and plumbers and electricians and technicians.
And all of that sector with skilled craft
really needs to be built.
The need for college education to be
able to have someone be able to build a wonderful family
and build a great life should not be related.
I mean, you should be able to build a great life no matter
what journey you decide.
And skill craft is really going to be a very important sector.
So AI is bringing back manufacturing
at a very large scale in the United States.
That's a fantastic thing.
The second thing is, with respect
to all the information workers, AI
will clearly augment your work.
The way you work today is going to be very different than the past.
Today, most of us are sitting in front of our computers typing all the time.
If you just take a step back and think about what software engineers do,
we spend all of our time typing.
Well, you ought to be spending your time problem solving.
And the way that people problem solve in the future,
it's just going to be very different.
And so we're still going to need just as many software engineers if not more.
We're going to need more product engineers if not more.
And so even more than that.
And so the world's work is going to be very different.
The one thing that I would advise young people,
and I advise every one of them,
you know, although some people say young workers,
young college graduates will be the first
to lose the opportunity,
that 50% of their jobs will be gone.
I think that's just complete nonsense.
The young people who are graduating from school today
are the best users of AI
because they grew up in that era.
When you're a great user of AI,
you're going to be highly employable.
You're not going to lose, a person
sound not likely to lose your job to AI.
You're going to lose your job to someone
who is an expert in using AI.
And so I would recommend that everybody
learn how to use AI.
And so for the doomers that are saying
AI is destroying jobs, I think they're
doing a disservice to society.
AI is creating jobs.
I think the doomers that are telling young people
that AI is going to destroy opportunities for them,
It's a disservice to them.
We should encourage them, inspire them to engage AI,
to become an expert in learning how to work with AI.
And then lastly, all of the companies that I know
who are using AI are running faster than ever.
They're flying faster than ever.
They're more ambitious than ever.
And so I think the world's companies that use AI
are going to be incredibly successful,
which is the reason why we use so much of it here.
Yeah, and I think that's great advice
for our graduates of 2026.
And it's this intelligence revolution is certainly making everyone smarter.
I should point out that you've also been real shareholder friendly in terms of this quarter
announcing the $80 billion share buyback plan and an increase in the dividend.
Jensen, I want to congratulate you and thank you so much for spending the time with us.
This was a comprehensive interview and I so appreciate you spending the time talking
with our audience on this.
Thank you, Jensen.
Thank you, Maria.
I always love talking to you.
Good to see you.
Jensen Huang joining us.
CEO and founder at NVIDIA.
We'll be right back.